The city of Bangalore has beautifully combined its rich cultural heritage with its technological and industrial accomplishments. In fact, this blend of traditions with the modern culture has made Bangalore one of the most happening cities in India. If on one side, the city is acquiring the status of the IT Capital, on the other, there is a revival of age-old traditional art forms. The fusion of the old and the new can be seen in every aspect of Bangalore culture, right from its theatre to its arts and crafts.
Bangalore was known as the “Garden City of India” and has two nationally recognized botanical gardens – Lal Bagh and Cubbon Park, which attract a lot of visitors through the year. The city was the recipient of the Indira Priyadarshini Vruksha Mitra award in the late 1980s, in recognition of its extensive green cover. Bannerghatta Zoo is also filled with green landscape with a wide variety of animals and birds.

Religion:
The people of Bengaluru are called Bengalurean or Bangalorean and the definition permeates class, religion, and language. One of the major religions of Bengaluru is Hinduism. The city celebrates what is known to be Bengaluru's oldest festival called "Karaga Shaktyotsava". Deepavali, the "Festival of Lights", transcends demographic and religious lines and is celebrated with great vigour. Dasara, a traditional celebratory hallmark of the old Kingdom of Mysuru is another important festival. Other traditional Indian festivals such as Ganesh Chaturthi, Ugadi, Sankranthi are also celebrated.
Eid ul-Fitr, Eid ul-Azha and Christmas are also reportedly celebrated by the Muslim and Christian population respectively.

Arts and Crafts:
The elite bungalows and impressive palaces of Bangalore stand testimony to the beautiful arts and crafts of the city. The interiors of these edifices stand adorned with arts and crafts, which have beauty beyond description. Right from wood to metal to stone, almost all types of arts and crafts can be seen in Bangalore.

Languages:
Bangalore languages comprise of all the languages spoken in the state of Karnataka. The language spoken by the majority of Bangaloreans is Kannada. Apart from Kannada and other regional languages, English is also quite widely spoken in the city.

People:
Bangalore, the fastest growing city of India, comprises of a dynamic blend of people, belonging to various religions, castes, and communities. With the introduction of information technology in the city, it has assumed an international character. IT professionals not only from the various parts of India, but also that of the world, are migrating to the city.