Kolkata is perhaps the most important cultural centre of India. The city is the birthplace of modern Indian literary and artistic thought and of Indian nationalism, and its citizens have made great efforts to preserve Indian culture and civilization. The blending of Eastern and Western cultural influences over the centuries has stimulated the creation of numerous and diverse organizations that contribute to Kolkata’s cultural life. In addition to the universities, these include the Asiatic Society of Bengal, the Bengal Literary Society (Bangiya Sahitya Parishad), the Ramakrishna Mission Institute of Culture, the Academy of Fine Arts, the Birla Academy of Art and Culture, and the Maha Bodhi Society.

Museums and libraries:
Greater Kolkata has dozens of museums, which cover a wide variety of fields. The Indian Museum, founded in 1814, is the oldest in India; the archaeology and numismatic sections contain valuable collections. The exhibits at Victoria Memorial Hall trace Britain’s relations with India. The Asutosh Museum of Indian Art in the University of Calcutta has exhibits of the folk art of Bengal among its collections. Science City, a large science museum and entertainment complex, was among the first of its kind in Asia. Valuable library collections are to be found in the Asiatic Society of Bengal, the Bengal Literary Society, and the University of Calcutta; the National Library is the largest in India and contains a fine collection of rare books and manuscripts.

Arts:
Kolkatans have long been active in literary and artistic pursuits. The city saw the dawn of the mid-19th-century literary movement that sparked a cultural renaissance throughout India. The best exponent of this movement was Rabindranath Tagore, winner of the Nobel Prize for Literature of 1913, whose remarkable creativity in poetry, music, drama, and painting continues to enrich the cultural life of the city. Kolkata remains at the vanguard of artistic movements in the country, and several artists’ societies present annual shows.
Kolkata is also a centre of traditional and contemporary music and dance. In 1934 Tagore inaugurated the first All-Bengal Music Conference in Kolkata. Since then, a number of classical Indian music conferences have been held every year. The home of many classical dancers, Kolkata was the location of Uday Shankar’s experiments at adapting Western theatrical techniques to traditional dance forms. The school of dance, music, and drama founded by him has been in the city since 1965.
Professional drama got its start in Kolkata in the 1870s, with the founding of the National Theatre (later replaced by the Minerva Theatre). Modern dramatic forms were pioneered in the city by such playwrights as Girish Chandra Ghosh and Dina Bandhu Mitra. Kolkata is still an important centre of professional and amateur theatre and of experimental drama. The city also has been a pioneering centre of motion-picture production in India. The avant-garde film directors Satyajit Ray and Mrinal Sen achieved international acclaim. There are scores of cinemas in the city, which regularly show films in English, Bengali, and Hindi.

Recreation:
Hundreds of parks, squares, and open spaces are maintained by the Kolkata Municipal Corporation. There is, however, very little open space in the overcrowded parts of the city. The Maidan, about 1,000 acres (400 hectares) in area, is the best-known open space; the major football (soccer), cricket, and hockey fields are located there. Adjacent to the Maidan is one of the oldest cricket fields in the world, Ranji Stadium, in the Eden Gardens; Netaji Stadium, for indoor events, is also in the vicinity. The Salt Lake Stadium, built to the east of the city, can seat 100,000 spectators. There are racecourses and golf courses within the city, and rowing at the Lake Club and the Bengal Rowing Club is popular. The Zoological Gardens are spread over an area of some 40 acres (16 hectares). The Indian Botanic Garden in Haora, on the west bank, contains thousands of species of plants.


